Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to jump straight into a challenge of opening the door anywhere.
Now this isn't as scary as it might first seem you've already got the knowledge necessary I believe
all I need to do is point you in the right direction and it's easy to get caught out.
That's the reason why I really want you to just go through your code and make sure that it makes logical
sense as you step through.
OK.
So here is your tip.
It's basically the member variables that we need to set up.
So you need to set the initial values for the following member variables and initial your which is critical
otherwise it won't work current your.
And they target your now the target your will end up changing again in the next lecture.
Very exciting we're going gonna expose that value to the properties you can have your doors open at
various angles and remember to step through your code step by step.
And it sounds like a very logical thing to say but it really does help you try and work out where in
your code you need to put certain things.
So go ahead pause the video now expect this to take you maybe.
Well if you're if you're already going Yeah I know this might take five 10 minutes though otherwise
it may take a little bit longer and that's okay.
The first time I started doing code like this it may have taken me just playing around having fun up
to an hour.
That's absolutely fine if it takes you that long.
It really does help you solidify your knowledge by playing with it and having fun.
So go ahead pause a video now and give that a go
OK everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and type up the code we need to open the door anywhere.
Let's go ahead over into the header file and declare some of the variables that we need.
OK.
And also sort out our indentation.
Now I'll target your here.
I'm not sure we're going to be initializing it with a value here.
The value will depend on its initial your plus whatever we decide an open door happens to be.
So let's go ahead and set up that initial yaw because that's something we're going to need.
And we also are going to have to have a currency or we need to keep track of where the door currently
is.
So we can update it.
That's also going to be a float as well.
So there are a member variables all set up and the whitespace removed.
OK.
So with all of those set let's go over to the implementation now.
OK so the first thing we need to do is in fact begin play.
So over here we need to set what the initial your happens to be.
So it will be the position of the door in the world not sorry not the position the rotation the your
value of whatever the door is or whatever it has this component on it essentially so.
So that's come up initial I know your that's not also completing let's check the header file.
Yes.
I can't spell initial save that come back initial your equals sources again to equal.
Well it's going to equal and get owner get active rotation and then the your value.
Okay.
So you probably recognize this from before.
This is what we were printing out to our to our log.
Very useful.
Okay.
So it got the oil.
Yeah that's fine.
Now what's the currency all going to be.
So the current jaw is just going to be the initial your to begin with.
It's as simple as that.
We're not going to change it at this point in time the moment the game plays the current in the initial
your are exactly the same.
So that's absolutely fine.
Now our target your this is where we're going to break away from having an absolute figure to a relative
one.
So our target your has to equal wherever the initial your is.
And plus whatever we consider an open door to be.
So at the moment I'm going for 90 degrees.
Now I'm not sure that needs to be minus 90 or plus 90.
Whether you want your doors opening inwards or outwards you can decide that later on.
And essentially this itself this 90 point f that is something that potentially later on we can take
out and make it use a defined when we're setting up the game so then each of the doors can have a different
opening states.
Okay.
Semicolon on the end of that.
So let's go down to the tick component and work out what we need to do here.
I'm not going to comment that out and keep it for reference for the moment and let's see what else do
we need to do here.
So we are going to at the end we're going to open the door.
We're going to set the actor rotation to the whatever the doors rotation is at that moment in time so
set actor rotation is the last thing that we're going to be doing.
Okay.
Ball going a bit backwards but we need somewhere to start.
So why not their and because we need to set the actor rotation we need to actually have an F rotating
we can put in there.
So we are going to have to declare a Doors rotation.
In this case I could call it open door again but I want to be clear that it's something different in
this case.
So I'm going to call it door rotation and we can we can code this in straightaway so we're going to
get oh now parentheses arrow operator gets acts rotation and that's all we need there.
So this will be an F rotates which we can pop into here.
So we might as well coat that scene straightaway as well.
So this is where we get.
Oh no once again the arrow operator we go into sex actor rotation to the doors rotation Okay so that's
the two last two lines of RKO done.
Well maybe not the last two lines but two of the important ones.
So now we need to update what the current yaw is.
So on this particular take on this particular frame our current yaw will be assigned to what ever the
results of this f math learn is going to be current colon colon learn.
I'm going to put my semicolon on the end straight away.
So we're going to start at whatever the current yaw is which will be initially on the first frame it'll
be the same as the initial yaw and then we're going to learn between that value and our target your
absolutely fine at a particular rate.
So we've already worked out that nought point two is roughly a good speed for its open up.
Okay.
So at this point we're going to look between the current jaw and the target your.
That's fine.
So that will update current yaw but we're not using current your anywhere.
So what we can do here is then assign the value of the current yaw to the.
Door rotations your instead so door rotation dot your and assign it the value of the current your SO
THAT WOULD HAVE incremented the door rotation by whatever the results of this on line 37 happen to be
okay.
Let's have a quick eyeball of code looking good let's save that over and I'm real I'm going to compile.
Now if my compile has worked what we should see is both of these doors will open they will open inwards
so into the room.
Okay.
So the compilers complete this go ahead and press play.
Would you look at that.
Yes.
Now it's a vector that is incredibly satisfying.
We've not only got the doors opening how we wanted to but we've also solved that problem that you're
going to come across time and time again when you're think you're rotating something by a certain value
but you forget that you create an absolute value rather than having a starting point from which to rotate.
But this is perfect that's exactly what I wanted to see.
How are you guys getting on.
I mean the really exciting thing here is you can now put doors at any angle.
If I was to go and grab the door and door frame just here and rotate it round you know just to there.
So it's facing the player straightaway it's opening to the right amount.
And of course if we wanted to because we sorted out the collisions as well we can walk through both
of those doors.
That's brilliant.
So the scope of your games just increased massively as well.
How are you guys getting on.
Let me now over in the discussions and I'll see you will in the next lecture.